[26.2] Improved cluster health summary (#1805)
redpanda-data/documentation: docs/deploy/deployment-option/self-hosted/connectors/docker-image.mdx

## Install new connector type

1. Prepare a new connector jar. Place a fat-jar or a jar with all dependent jars in a dedicated directory. For example: `./connect-plugins/snowflake-sink/snowflake-sink-fat.jar`
2. Mount a volume to bind the directory with a container. For example, make the `./connect-plugins` directory content visible in `/opt/kafka/connect-plugins` in a container:
  ```yaml
  volumes:
    - ./connect-plugins:/opt/kafka/connect-plugins
3. Use the `CONNECT_PLUGIN_PATH` image property to configure a directory with the new connector. Use Kafka Connect to discover new connectors. For example:
  ```yaml
  CONNECT_PLUGIN_PATH: "/opt/kafka/connect-plugins"
4. The new connector type should be discovered by Kafka Connect automatically on startup. Use the `/connector-plugins` Kafka Connect REST endpoint to check available connector types. For example: `curl localhost:8083/connector-plugins`

> :::tip
> Create a separate child directory for each connector, and place the connector's jar files and other resource files in that child directory.
> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  :::tip
  Create a separate child directory for each connector, and place the connector's jar files and other resource files in that child directory.
  :::
```

## Configure SASL

1. Prepare the SASL user and password, making sure the user has necessary permissions.
- Write access for internal topics and access to consumer groups (so all workers in the cluster can communicate with each other) is required.
- ACLs depend on used connector type (source/sink) and topics used by the connectors.
2. Create a file containing the plain text password in a dedicated directory. For example, in `./connect-password/redpanda-password/password` where the `password` file contains just the password
3. Mount a volume to bind the directory with a container. For example, make the `./connect-password` directory content visible in `/opt/kafka/connect-password` in a container:
  ```yaml
  volumes:
    - ./connect-password:/opt/kafka/connect-password
4. Use `CONNECT_SASL_USERNAME` to set the SASL username, and use `CONNECT_SASL_PASSWORD_FILE` to set the relative path to a password file. For example, if the file is in `/opt/kafka/connect-password/redpanda-password/password`, use the `redpanda-password/password` value.
  ```yaml
  CONNECT_SASL_USERNAME: "connect-user"
  CONNECT_SASL_PASSWORD_FILE: "redpanda-password/password"

## Configure TLS

> 1. Prepare Redpanda cluster cert and key. Place them in a dedicated directory, for example:

Reviewer 2: 1. Prepare the Redpanda cluster certificate and key, and place them in a dedicated directory. For example:
```
    ./connect-certs/ca.crt
    ./connect-certs/client.crt
    ./connect-certs/client.key
```

> 1. Prepare Redpanda cluster cert and key. Place them in a dedicated directory, for example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Prepare the Redpanda cluster certificate and key, and place them in a dedicated directory. For example:
```

```

> ./connect-certs/ca.crt
> ./connect-certs/client.crt
> ./connect-certs/client.key

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      ./connect-certs/ca.crt
      ./connect-certs/client.crt
      ./connect-certs/client.key
```

---

> title: Connectors docker image

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Connectors Docker Image
```

> title: Connectors Docker Image

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
title: Configure Connectors with Docker Image
```

---

<head>
    <meta name="title" content="Docker image | Redpanda Docs"/>
    <meta name="description" content="Connectors self-hosted docker image"/>
    <link rel="canonical" href="https://docs.redpanda.com/docs/deploy/deployment-option/self-hosted/connectors/docker-image/" />
</head>

> The image is available in a Docker Hub repository: https://hub.docker.com/r/redpandadata/connectors/tags

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

```

The image contains:
* Red Hat Enterprise Linux 8.8
* OpenJDK 17 LTS
* Kafka Connect
* JMX-Exporter JMX Prometheus JavaAgent

Included connectors:
* MirrorSourceConnector
* MirrorCheckpointConnector
* MirrorHeartbeatConnector

> ## Image configuration properties

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Docker image configuration properties

The following table lists the available Docker image properties.
```

> | Property                           | Meaning                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| Property                           | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
```

## Install new connector type

1. Prepare new connector jar. Place a fat-jar or jar with all dependencies jars in a dedicated directory. For example: `./connect-plugins/snowflake-sink/snowflake-sink-fat.jar`
2. Mount a volume to bind the directory with a container. For example make `./connect-plugins` directory content visible in `/opt/kafka/connect-plugins` in a container:
```yaml
volumes:
  - ./connect-plugins:/opt/kafka/connect-plugins
```
3. Use `CONNECT_PLUGIN_PATH` image property to configure a directory with new connector. Kafka Connect use it to discover new connectors. For example:
```yaml
CONNECT_PLUGIN_PATH: "/opt/kafka/connect-plugins"
```
4. New connector type should be discovered by Kafka Connect automatically on startup. Use `/connector-plugins` Kafka Connect REST endpoint to check available connector types list. For example: `curl localhost:8083/connector-plugins`

:::tip
The general recommendation is to create a separate child directory for each connector, and to place that connector's JAR files and other resource files in that child directory.
:::

## Configure SASL

> 

Reviewer 3: To configure SASL:

> 1. Prepare SASL user and password, make sure the user has right permissions.
> * Write access for internal topics and access to consumer group (so all workers in the cluster can communicate each other) is always required.
> * ACLs depend on used connector type (source/sink) and topics used by the connectors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Prepare the SASL user and password, making sure the user has necessary permissions.
- Write access for internal topics and access to consumer groups (so all workers in the cluster can communicate with each other) is required.
- ACLs depend on used connector type (source/sink) and topics used by the connectors.
```

> 2. Create a file containing the plain-text password in a dedicated directory. For example in `./connect-password/redpanda-password/password` where `password` file contains just the password.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Create a file containing the plain text password in a dedicated directory. For example, in `./connect-password/redpanda-password/password` where the `password` file contains just the password
```

> 3. Mount a volume to bind the directory with a container. For example make `./connect-password` directory content visible in `/opt/kafka/connect-password` in a container:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Mount a volume to bind the directory with a container. For example, make the `./connect-password` directory content visible in `/opt/kafka/connect-password` in a container:
```

> ```yaml
> volumes:
>   - ./connect-password:/opt/kafka/connect-password
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  ```yaml
  volumes:
    - ./connect-password:/opt/kafka/connect-password
  ```
```

4. Use `CONNECT_SASL_USERNAME` image property, set SASL username. Use `CONNECT_SASL_PASSWORD_FILE` to set relative path to a password file. For example, if file is in `/opt/kafka/connect-password/redpanda-password/password`, use just `redpanda-password/password` value.
```yaml
CONNECT_SASL_USERNAME: "connect-user"
CONNECT_SASL_PASSWORD_FILE: "redpanda-password/password"
```

## Configure TLS

1. Prepare Redpanda cluster cert and key. Place them in a dedicated directory, for example:
```
./connect-certs/ca.crt
./connect-certs/client.crt
./connect-certs/client.key
``` 
2. Mount a volume to bind the directory with a container. For example make `./connect-plugins` directory content visible in `/opt/kafka/connect-plugins` in a container:
```yaml
volumes:
  - ./connect-certs:/opt/kafka/connect-certs/user-secret
```
3. Set `CONNECT_TLS_ENABLED` property to `"true"`.

> 4. Use `CONNECT_TLS_AUTH_CERT`, `CONNECT_TRUSTED_CERTS` and `CONNECT_TLS_AUTH_KEY` image properties to configure relative path to cert and key. For example, if files are in `/opt/kafka/connect-certs/user-secret`, use:
> ```yaml
> CONNECT_TRUSTED_CERTS: "user-secret/ca.crt"
> CONNECT_TLS_AUTH_CERT: "user-secret/client.crt"
> CONNECT_TLS_AUTH_KEY: "user-secret/client.key"
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Use the `CONNECT_TLS_AUTH_CERT`, `CONNECT_TRUSTED_CERTS`, and `CONNECT_TLS_AUTH_KEY` image properties to configure the relative path to the certificate and key. For example, if the files are in `/opt/kafka/connect-certs/user-secret`, use:
  ```yaml
  CONNECT_TRUSTED_CERTS: "user-secret/ca.crt"
  CONNECT_TLS_AUTH_CERT: "user-secret/client.crt"
  CONNECT_TLS_AUTH_KEY: "user-secret/client.key"
  ```
```

> #### Sample Docker-compose file

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### Sample Docker Compose file
```

      CONNECT_SASL_USERNAME: "connect-user"
      CONNECT_SASL_PASSWORD_FILE: "redpanda-password/password"
      CONNECT_TLS_ENABLED: "true"
      CONNECT_TRUSTED_CERTS: "user-secret/ca.crt"
      CONNECT_TLS_AUTH_CERT: "user-secret/client.crt"
      CONNECT_TLS_AUTH_KEY: "user-secret/client.key"
      CONNECT_PLUGIN_PATH: "/opt/kafka/connect-plugins"
```

    ├── ...
    ├── connect-certs
    │   ├── ca.crt                                 # A file with Redpanda cluster CA cert
    │   ├── client.crt                             # A file with Redpanda cluster cert
    │   └── client.key                             # A file with Redpanda cluster key
    ├── connect-password
    │   └── redpanda-password
    │       └──password                            # A file with SASL password
    ├── connect-plugins
    │   └── custom-connector
    │       └── custom-sink-connector-fat.jar      # Connector fat jar or jar and dependencies jars
    └── docker-compose.yaml                        # A docker-compose file

1. Execute `docker-compose up` command from a directory containing `docker-compose.yaml` file.
2. List installed plugins: `curl localhost:8083/connector-plugins`.

> 3. Get Kafka Connect basic info: `curl localhost:8083/`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. To get Kafka Connect basic information, run: `curl localhost:8083/`.
```

4. Metrics are available at `localhost:9404/`.

> 5. Use Redpanda Console or Kafka Connect REST API to manage connectors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Use the Redpanda Console or Kafka Connect REST API to manage connectors.
```

## REST API

> It is possible to manage connectors using Kafka Connect REST API.
> Examples:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can manage connectors using the Kafka Connect REST API. For example:
```

> *  Get version of Kafka Connect worker
> ```text
> curl localhost:8083 | jq
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get the version of the Kafka Connect worker:
```text
curl localhost:8083 | jq
```
```

> * Get list of available connector plugins

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get the list of available connector plugins:
```

```text
curl localhost:8083/connector-plugins | jq
```

> * Get list of active connectors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get the list of active connectors:
```

```text
curl 'http://localhost:8083/connectors?expand=status&expand=info' | jq
```

> * Create connector `curl "localhost:8083/connectors" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' --data-raw '<connector-config>'`
> for example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create the connector `curl "localhost:8083/connectors" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' --data-raw '<connector-config>'`:
```

```text
curl "localhost:8083/connectors" \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data-raw '{  "name": "heartbeat-connector", "config": { "connector.class": "org.apache.kafka.connect.mirror.MirrorHeartbeatConnector", "heartbeats.topic.replication.factor": "1", "replication.factor": "1",  "source.cluster.alias": "source",  "source.cluster.bootstrap.servers": "redpanda:29092",     "target.cluster.bootstrap.servers": "redpanda:29092"}}'
```

> * Get connector status `curl localhost:8083/connectors/<connector-name>/status`
> for example:
> ```text
> curl localhost:8083/connectors/heartbeat-connector/status
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get connector status, run: 
```text
curl localhost:8083/connectors/<connector-name>/status
```
For example:
```text
curl localhost:8083/connectors/heartbeat-connector/status
```
```

> * Delete connector `curl "localhost:8083/connectors/<connector-name>" -X 'DELETE'` for example:
> ```text

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To delete the connector `curl "localhost:8083/connectors/<connector-name>" -X 'DELETE'`:
```text
```

5. Use Redpanda Console or Kafka Connect REST API to manage connectors.

## REST API
It is possible to manage connectors using Kafka Connect REST API.
Examples:
*  Get version of Kafka Connect worker
```text
curl localhost:8083 | jq
```

* Get list of available connector plugins
```text
curl localhost:8083/connector-plugins | jq
```
* Get list of active connectors
```text
curl 'http://localhost:8083/connectors?expand=status&expand=info' | jq
```
* Create connector `curl "localhost:8083/connectors" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' --data-raw '<connector-config>'`
for example
```text
curl "localhost:8083/connectors" \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data-raw '{  "name": "heartbeat-connector", "config": { "connector.class": "org.apache.kafka.connect.mirror.MirrorHeartbeatConnector", "heartbeats.topic.replication.factor": "1", "replication.factor": "1",  "source.cluster.alias": "source",  "source.cluster.bootstrap.servers": "redpanda:29092",     "target.cluster.bootstrap.servers": "redpanda:29092"}}'
```
* Get connector status `curl localhost:8083/connectors/<connector-name>/status`
for example:
```text
curl localhost:8083/connectors/heartbeat-connector/status
```

> To delete the connector `curl "localhost:8083/connectors/<connector-name>" -X 'DELETE'`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To delete the connector, run:  
```
curl "localhost:8083/connectors/<connector-name>" -X 'DELETE'
```
For example:
```

  ```yaml
  CONNECT_SASL_USERNAME: "connect-user"
  CONNECT_SASL_PASSWORD_FILE: "redpanda-password/password"

## Configure TLS

To configure TLS: 

1. Prepare Redpanda cluster certificate and key, and place them in a dedicated directory. For example:

  ```
  ./connect-certs/ca.crt
  ./connect-certs/client.crt
  ./connect-certs/client.key
  ``` 

2. Mount a volume to bind the directory with a container. <br/>For example, make the `./connect-plugins` directory content visible in `/opt/kafka/connect-plugins` in a container:

  ```yaml
  volumes:
    - ./connect-certs:/opt/kafka/connect-certs/user-secret
  ```

3. Set the `CONNECT_TLS_ENABLED` property to `"true"`.

4. Use the `CONNECT_TLS_AUTH_CERT`, `CONNECT_TRUSTED_CERTS`, and `CONNECT_TLS_AUTH_KEY` image properties to configure the relative path to the certificate and key. <br/>For example, if the files are in `/opt/kafka/connect-certs/user-secret`, use:

  ```yaml
  CONNECT_TRUSTED_CERTS: "user-secret/ca.crt"
  CONNECT_TLS_AUTH_CERT: "user-secret/client.crt"
  CONNECT_TLS_AUTH_KEY: "user-secret/client.key"
  ```

## Connect with Docker Compose

> The following Docker Compose file can be used as a sample:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can use the following Docker Compose file as a sample:
```

      CONNECT_GC_LOG_ENABLED: "false"
      CONNECT_HEAP_OPTS: -Xms1G -Xmx1G
      CONNECT_METRICS_ENABLED: "false"
      CONNECT_SASL_MECHANISM: "scram-sha-256"
      CONNECT_SASL_USERNAME: "connect-user"
      CONNECT_SASL_PASSWORD_FILE: "redpanda-password/password"
      CONNECT_TLS_ENABLED: "true"
      CONNECT_TRUSTED_CERTS: "user-secret/ca.crt"
      CONNECT_TLS_AUTH_CERT: "user-secret/client.crt"
      CONNECT_TLS_AUTH_KEY: "user-secret/client.key"
      CONNECT_PLUGIN_PATH: "/opt/kafka/connect-plugins"
```

    ├── ...
    ├── connect-certs
    │   ├── ca.crt                                 # A file with Redpanda cluster CA cert
    │   ├── client.crt                             # A file with Redpanda cluster cert
    │   └── client.key                             # A file with Redpanda cluster key
    ├── connect-password
    │   └── redpanda-password
    │       └──password                            # A file with SASL password
    ├── connect-plugins
    │   └── custom-connector
    │       └── custom-sink-connector-fat.jar      # Connector fat jar or jar and dependencies jars
    └── docker-compose.yaml                        # A docker-compose file

> 1. Run the `docker-compose up` command from a directory containing the `docker-compose.yaml` file.

Reviewer 3: These steps need an introductory statement providing context. Or, move under a heading?
